Add details about JWT security on older iOS devices (#343)
THEOplayer/documentation: theolive/platform/Security/token-based-security.mdx

# Token based security

> Dolby OptiView Live offers the option to enable JWT token security on channel alias level. This can be interesting if you only want valid users to access your stream.

Reviewer: We have not changed the names yet in the docs, so I would probably not change it here.

### 1. Create a network interceptor

> First thing to do is to create a header provider function. In this function you add the `Authorization` header which contains a bearer token generated by you. This token should at least contain a `exp` property, and an optional `nbf` property. You can add as many other properties to it as you want, but OptiView live doesn't do anything with them.

Reviewer 2: Revert for now.
```suggestion
First thing to do is to create a header provider function. In this function you add the `Authorization` header which contains a bearer token generated by you. This token should at least contain a `exp` property, and an optional `nbf` property. You can add as many other properties to it as you want, but THEOlive doesn't do anything with them.
```

The service worker needs to intercept the `fetch` requests originating from the app, compute a JWT and attach it as a `Authorization` header to the request and dispatch it. As mentioned above, the only key in the JWT that we need is the `exp`, all others are optional and will be ignored by the backend.

A code snippet for the service worker code is shared below.

```javascript Service Worker for iOS Safari
// If you are using a symmetric key, then this is the same key as configured in your console.
const YOUR_JWT_SIGNING_KEY = 'YOUR-SIGNING-KEY-GOES-HERE';

// Service worker events
self.addEventListener('install', () => {
  console.log('Service worker installed!');
  self.skipWaiting();
});

// Activation event
self.addEventListener('activate', (event) => {
  console.log('Service Worker activated');
  // Claim clients so the service worker is in effect immediately
  event.waitUntil(self.clients.claim());
});
// Service worker events end

// Utility functions to create JWT
const base64UrlEncode = (str) => {
  return btoa(str).replace(/\+/g, '-').replace(/\//g, '_').replace(/=/g, '');
};

const utf8ToUint8Array = (str) => {
  return new TextEncoder().encode(str);
};

> const sign = async (payload, secret) => {

Reviewer 3: Not sure what the other reviewers think. On the one hand this is a very complete example, but also it is quite complex because it has all the signing logic which isn't specific to our service and complicates this sample quite a bit. Should we omit it and focus on what is special to our product, or do customers need the full signing logic as well?

Author: Importing Jose would mean I'd have to include an example of copying the source from `node_modules` into the `build`/output directory and then load all the functions in - that would complicate the scope of this example far too much. 

The other thing I can do here is to move the signing logic out of the snippet, into a GitHub gist and link that in the doc here for people to refer to _if_ they need it. Otherwise they're free to do it the way they prefer.

Reviewer 2: You could put it in a `<details>` element, so it'll be hidden unless you actually open it. For example:
``````markdown
A code snippet for the service worker code is shared below.

```js
// Replace "sign" with your JWT sign function. See below for possible implementations.
const jwt = await sign(
  {
    exp: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000) + 300, // 5 minutes
  },
  YOUR_JWT_SIGNING_KEY
);
```

The snippet above assumes the existence of a function `sign(payload, secret)` that generates a JWT signature using the default HMAC SHA-256 algorithm [(see docs on jwt.io)](https://jwt.io/introduction). In pseudo code:
```
header = { alg: 'HS256', typ: 'JWT' }
sign(payload, secret) = HMACSHA256(
  base64UrlEncode(header) + "." +
  base64UrlEncode(payload),
  secret)
```

You can use an existing library like [Jose](https://github.com/panva/jose), or you can use our example implementation:

<details>
<summary>JWT `sign` function</summary>

```js
const sign = async (payload, secret) => {
  // ...Our sign function goes here
}
```

</details>
```

``````

Reviewer 4: I am with @MattiasBuelens  here. We need to give a complete example to the customer.  I was going to propose breaking out JWT basics with code into a new section that could be linked in to the OptiView specific components but the `<details>` approach is probably cleaner.

Author: Thanks guys, I've essentially followed Mattias' lead now. Appreciate the input :)

  const header = { alg: 'HS256', typ: 'JWT' };

  const encodedHeader = base64UrlEncode(JSON.stringify(header));
  const encodedPayload = base64UrlEncode(JSON.stringify(payload));

  const data = `${encodedHeader}.${encodedPayload}`;
  const secretBytes = utf8ToUint8Array(secret);

  const key = await crypto.subtle.importKey('raw', secretBytes, { name: 'HMAC', hash: { name: 'SHA-256' } }, false, ['sign']);

  const signature = await crypto.subtle.sign({ name: 'HMAC' }, key, utf8ToUint8Array(data));

  const signatureBytes = new Uint8Array(signature);
  let signatureStr = '';
  for (let i = 0; i < signatureBytes.length; i++) {
    signatureStr += String.fromCharCode(signatureBytes[i]);
  }

  return `${data}.${base64UrlEncode(signatureStr)}`;
};

// Intercept the fetch event and add in your JWT
self.addEventListener('fetch', (event) => {
  event.respondWith(
    (async function () {
      try {
        const url = event.request.url;
        // Only intercept requests made by the player and not other requests

>         if (url.includes('manifest.json') || url.includes('hspi') || url.includes('hspc')) {

Reviewer 5: I would replace this by `new URL(event.request.url).origin.endsWith("theo.live")`

            headers: {
              ...Object.fromEntries(event.request.headers.entries()),
              Authorization: `Bearer ${jwt}`,
            },
          });

          return fetch(modifiedRequest);
        }

        // For other requests, just pass through
        return fetch(event.request);
      } catch (error) {
        console.error('Error in fetch handler:', error);
        return new Response('Service Worker Error', { status: 500 });
      }
    })()
  );
});
```

And then, to register this service worker in to your code, you can attach it this way.

```javascript add service worker
const registerServiceWorker = () => {
  if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
    // Replace with your own path to the service worker location.
    navigator.serviceWorker
      .register('./path/to/your/service-worker.js')
      .then((reg) => {
        if (reg.active) console.log('Service worker registered!');
      })
      .catch((err) => {
        console.error('Could not register service worker!', err);
      });
  } else {
    console.error('Service worker not supported!');
  }
};
// Initialise the service worker some time early in the processs.

> if (!(window.MediaSource || window.WebKitMediaSource || window.ManagedMediaSource)) {

Reviewer 3: We don't support WebKitMediaSource, so even if it exists you should add the service worker

Reviewer 2: Yes please! 🙂

Author: Removed :)

  registerServiceWorker();
}
```

> :::note

Reviewer 3: I would maybe also add a note that all the crypto stuff and registering a service worker only works in secure contexts (https)

Author: Tagged you above where I added it in.

:::warning
An unauthorized error will occur if no token or an invalid token is passed, preventing users from being able to watch the stream.
:::

### Limitations on iOS devices

Apple devices running an iOS version lower than 17.1 do not support MSE, therefore there are limitations with what is possible when playing a THEOlive stream. One such limitation is that the above network interceptor approach does not work on those devices. Instead, a service worker needs to be registered to support playback of JWT enabled streams.

The service worker needs to intercept the `fetch` requests originating from the app, compute a JWT and attach it as a `Authorization` header to the request and dispatch it. As mentioned above, the only key in the JWT that we need is the `exp`, all others are optional and will be ignored by the backend.

A code snippet for the service worker code is shared below.

:::note

> Service worker registration and the usage of the crypto object (used for signing the JWT) are only posssible in a secure environment (`https://`) or on `localhost`.

Author: @jeroentempels-dolby here :)

              Authorization: `Bearer ${jwt}`,
            },
          });

          return fetch(modifiedRequest);
        }

        // For other requests, just pass through
        return fetch(event.request);
      } catch (error) {
        console.error('Error in fetch handler:', error);
        return new Response('Service Worker Error', { status: 500 });
      }
    })()
  );
});
```

And then, to register this service worker in to your code, you can attach it this way.

```javascript add service worker
const registerServiceWorker = () => {
  if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
    // Replace with your own path to the service worker location.
    navigator.serviceWorker
      .register('./path/to/your/service-worker.js')
      .then((reg) => {
        if (reg.active) console.log('Service worker registered!');
      })
      .catch((err) => {
        console.error('Could not register service worker!', err);
      });
  } else {
    console.error('Service worker not supported!');
  }
};
// Initialise the service worker some time early in the processs.
if (!(window.MediaSource || window.ManagedMediaSource)) {
  registerServiceWorker();
}
```

> The snippet above assumes the existence of a function `sign(payload, secret)` that generates a JSON Web Token (JWT) and signs it using the default HMAC SHA-256 algorithm. (Refer to docs on jwt.io)](https://jwt.io/introduction). In pseudo-code :

Reviewer 3: You missed a square bracket here so the link doesn't work
